---
weight: 1
title: Configuring Hyprland
---

The config is located in `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`.

You can tell Hyprland to use a specific configuration file by using the
`--config` (or `-c`) argument.

Hyprland will automatically generate an example config for you if you don't have
one. You can find an example config
[here](https://github.com/hyprwm/Hyprland/blob/main/example/hyprland.conf).

By removing the line `autogenerated=1` you'll remove the yellow warning.

The config is reloaded the moment you save it. However, you can use `hyprctl reload` to reload the config manually.

Start a section with `name {` and end in `}` **_in separate lines!_**

{{< callout >}}

The default config is not complete and does not list all the options / features
of Hyprland. Please refer to this wiki page and the pages linked further down
here for full configuration instructions.

**Make sure to read the [Variables](../Variables) page as well**. It covers all
the toggleable / numerical options.

{{< /callout >}}

## Line style

Every config line is a command followed by a value.

```ini
COMMAND=VALUE
```

The command can be a variable, or a special keyword (described further in this
page)

You are **allowed to** input trailing spaces at the beginning and end.

e.g.:

```ini
COMMAND = VALUE
```

is valid.

### Comments

Comments are started with the `#` character.

If you want to escape it (put an actual `#` and not start a comment) you can use
`##`. It will be turned into a single `#` that WILL be a part of your line.

## Basic configuring

To configure the "options" of Hyprland, animations, styling, etc. see
[Variables](../Variables).

## Advanced configuring

Some keywords (binds, curves, execs, monitors, etc.) are not variables but
define special behavior.

See all of them in [Keywords](../Keywords) and the sidebar.
