---
weight: 1
title: ⮞⮞ Start Here ⮜⮜
---

> [!NOTE]
> Looking for the old hyprlang syntax? Check the [0.54 wiki pages](https://wiki.hypr.land/0.54.0/).
> Since Hyprland 0.55, hyprlang is deprecated in favor of lua.

The config is located in `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hypr/hyprland.lua`. In most cases,
that maps to `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.lua`.

You can tell Hyprland to use a specific configuration file by using the
`--config` (or `-c`) argument.

Hyprland will automatically generate an example config for you if you don't have
one. You can find an example config
[here](https://github.com/hyprwm/Hyprland/blob/main/example/hyprland.lua).

By removing the line containing `hl.config({ autogenerated = true })` you'll remove the yellow
warning.

The config is reloaded the moment you save it. However, you can use
`hyprctl reload` to reload the config manually.

> [!WARNING]
> The default config is not complete and does not list all the options / features
> of Hyprland. Please refer to this wiki page and the pages linked further down
> here for full configuration instructions.

## Language style and syntax

Hyprland uses [Lua](https://lua.org/) for its configuration file. It's an easy
and performant scripting language used throughout various pieces of software.

### General Hyprland Lua tips

#### Sample config

It's [here](https://github.com/hyprwm/Hyprland/blob/main/example/hyprland.lua).

#### Using Multiple Configuration Files

Splitting hyprland's configuration across multiple files is an easier way of managing the configuration. To source or reference other files we use lua's [require](#require) function. 

You can refer to the files using relative paths from the location of `hyprland.lua`. Example:

```lua
-- refers to $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hypr/awesomeconf/keybinds.lua
require("awesomeconf/keybinds")

-- refers to $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hypr/awesomeconf/animation.lua
require("awesomeconf.animation")
```
You can use either `/` or `.` as a directory separator. The `/` separator is UNIX specific whilst the `.` separator is generic.

#### Autocompletions

We ship autogenerated Lua stubs in the repo's `meta/` directory. You can set up
your LSP to automatically load them. This file is usually installed in `/usr/share/hypr/stubs/`.

{{< tabs items="Generic,VS Code" >}}

{{< tab "Generic" >}}

Add a `.luarc.json` file in your repository root, then:

```json
{
  "workspace": {
    "library": [
      "/usr/share/hypr/stubs"
    ]
  },
  "diagnostics": {
    "globals": ["hl"]
  }
}
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "VS Code" >}}

Create a `settings.json` file in `.vscode/` (if it doesn't exist, make it), then:

```json
{
  "Lua.workspace.library": [
    "/usr/share/hypr/stubs"
  ],
  "Lua.diagnostics.globals": [
    "hl"
  ]
}
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

#### Require

Use `require()` to source other files into your config. This is **highly** recommended
because each `require()` call is specifically made by Hyprland to be a separate
lua "scope", so errors in one `require()`d file do _not_ stop execution of other files.

It's important to note that many errors will kill the execution of a given lua file.
Error behavior is described further below.

#### Error behavior

Hyprland attempts as much as we can to make errors as non-destructive as possible. However,
it's not always possible:
 - Fundamental lua syntax errors will make Hyprland refuse to reload your config and pop an error
 - Runtime lua syntax errors will abort execution of the current lua file and pop an error (e.g. calling a `nil`)
 - Runtime Hyprland type errors will continue execution and pop an error (e.g. passing a string instead of a float to `hl.*`)
 - Runtime errors during async execution (e.g. a keybind function) will pop a notification about the error

If you are launching Hyprland, and you have a major error before your binds, in the same file,
those binds will obviously not load.

To alleviate this, Hyprland will give you a few emergency keybinds (SUPER+Q, +R and +M for terminal, run, and exit respectively)
and mention this in the error popup.

#### Infinite loops, reentrant events

Hyprland has protections in place to avoid scripts that would run forever from taking down
the session. These will kill your script after a given timeout / limit has been reached.

#### Standard library

The lua standard libraries are loaded by default. Lua scripts can execute
arbitrary code on your machine, make sure you trust your config source.